<h1>Converting Generative Design</h1>
<p>
In 2012 Hartmut Bohnacker, Benedikt Gross, Julia Laub, and Claudius Lazzeroni (ed.) published a massive volume of generative art programs entitled <a href="http://onformative.com/work/book-generative-gestaltung"><i>Generative Design: Visualize, Program, and Create with Processing</i></a> (Princeton Architectural Press). It's one of the best compilations of generative art programs in existence (at least from a practical standpoint). As the subtitle notes, the programs are based on a language called <a href="https://processing.org/"><strong>Processing</strong></a> (version 2.0). For those who are unfamiliar with the language, it is based on Java and is designed primarily for "students, artists, designers, researchers, and hobbyists" in the visual arts.
<p>
Off and on over the past year, I have spent a bit of spare time converting many of these programs to Javascript with a new language called <a href="https://p5js.org"><strong>p5.js</strong></a>. The differences between Processing and p5.js are that: (1) p5.js runs natively on the Web while Processing doesn't; but (2) Processing has been around for much longer and is much more extensive. Consequently, some of the programs in the book could not be converted because p5.js versions of various libraries don't exist, and unlike Processing it has minimal support for 3D.
<p>
My primary reasons for working on a conversion were that: (1) it was a good way to get a better understanding of the programs in <i>Generative Design</i>; (2) it enhanced my knowledge of p5.js; and (3) I thought no one was working on the conversion. So, that's what I get for thinking. There were actually 2 other efforts in progress. First, some of the programs had been converted by staff members at <a href = "http://www.lyceelecorbusier.eu/p5js/?p=2403">Le Corbusier Lycee</a>. It appears they ran into some of the same roadblocks that I did. Second, and much more importantly, Hartmut Bohnacker, and Benedikt Gross are in the process of converting all of the programs in their book to p5.js. Their converted code is available on github at 
<a href="https://github.com/generative-design">Generative Design</a>.
<p>
Because Bohnacker and Gross are proceeding, there is no need for me to formally package or to clean up the code that I have completed. If you are interested in the code, I have created a zip file of my code in this repository. It includes a series of html programs that each references an associated sketch in the "p5progs" subdirectory along other subdirectories containing the p5 libraries and various image files. So, for example, the file "genp5-M_1_1_01-comp-rand1.html" references /p5progs/sketch--M_1_1_01-comp-rand1.js". This varies from the usual pattern of having a generic "index.html" file referencing a generic "sketch.js" file. I have trouble with that on my own system because you end up with 70+ plus files named index and sketch. To run most of the files you need to unzip the files into a directory accessible from your web server and run them as you would any other html program. Also, there is a single html file in the collection labeled "listOfPrograms.html" that provides an index for accessing all the including html files and sketches. If you do use the programs and run into problems, feel free to contact me. 
